I build little model rooms and I put
them in big tanks of water I really like
approaching problems by breaking them
down into something very simple and then
really understanding that quite simple
problem and then building back up from
there
Ike I like to think of myself as a
experimentalist who thinks like a
mathematician I'm investigating what
happens when you have wind and buoyancy
sources like heat sources inside a room
like what effect does that have on the
ventilation rate we're interested
because you want to know how outdoor
pollution sources will kind of make
their way indoors when you have natural
ventilation spaces the natural
ventilation is when you bring in air
from outside indoors without using kind
of some mechanical means like without
using a fan or a big ventilated system
like cooling buildings takes up a lot of
energy if you can do it without having
to use expensive energy-hungry
ventilating systems that would be great
for our energy usage but that only works
if the air outside isn't too polluted
they're leading on from that how do you
design cities such that they're the air
is not polluted enough it's sufficiently
unpolluted pads you can use natural
ventilation as a way of cooling
buildings so the experiments I'm going
to do is follow magic are looking at
what happens when you have a model room
you have a heated floor and then you put
it in a water tunnel it simulates win
and the idea is that we'll be able to
measure that kind of flow regimes you
see like what sort of flow patterns you
see in the box and also at the effect of
combining these two forces like
combining wind effects with buoyancy
effects the room were interested in so
the room that field measurements are
going to be made in has two windows on
one side on one window on the other and
also it has a skylight and something
we're very interested in is how does the
ventilation rate change when you open
these windows in different combinations
what is the best setup for getting the
best ventilation and the most
comfortable room I'm building my
experiment at the moment this is a
experiment in the lab to sort of give
you an example
so we've got this blue which is I got a
source at the top and it's sinking down
through the box into this layer of dense
fluid which is filling up the bottom
half of the box and then the fluid from
the dense layer is being pulled out by
this second pump much like a
mechanically ventilated room word if it
was drawing hot air from the top of the
room and the thing I'm interested in is
how pollution outside rooms might affect
the interior and I investigate this by
like measuring the ventilation rate of
rooms when they're affected by like heat
sources inside and by wind outside